## Microservices at a Glance

Microservices are independently releasable services that are modeled around a business domain. A service encapsulates functionality and makes it accessible to other services via networks.
Internal implementation details (such as the technology the service is written in or the way data is stored) are entirely hidden from the outside world.

Microservice architectures **avoid the use of shared databases** in most circumstances; instead, each microservice encapsulates its own database where required.

Microservices embrace the concept of information hiding. _Information hiding_ means **hiding as much information as possible** inside a component and exposing as little as possible via external interfaces. Implementation that is hidden from external parties can be changed freely as long as the networked interfaces the microservice exposes don’t change in a backward-incompatible fashion.

#### SOA
_Service-oriented architecture_ is a design approach in which multiple services collaborate to provide a certain end set of capabilities. A _service_ here typically means a completely separate operating system process. Communication between these services occurs via calls across a network rather than method calls within a process boundary.
I’ve seen plenty of examples of SOA in which teams were striving to make the services smaller, but they still had everything coupled to a database and had to deploy everything together. Service oriented? Yes. But it’s not microservices.
The microservice approach has emerged from real-world use, taking our better understanding of systems and architecture to do SOA well. You should think of microservices as being a specific approach for SOA in the same way that Extreme Programming (XP) or Scrum is a specific approach for Agile software development.

## Key concepts
###### 1. Independent Deployability
**It's the most important concept.**
_Independent deployability_ is the idea that we can make a change to a microservice, deploy it, and release that change to our users, without having to deploy any other microservices.
We need to make sure our microservices are _loosely coupled_.
Some implementation choices make this difficult—the sharing of databases, for example, is especially problematic.
The desire for loosely coupled services with stable interfaces guides our thinking about how we find our microservice boundaries in the first place.
###### 2. Modeled around a Business Domain
By modeling services around business domains, we can make it easier to roll out new functionality and to recombine microservices in different ways to deliver new functionality to our users.
Rolling out a feature that requires changes to more than one microservice is expensive. That takes a lot of more work than making the same change inside a single service. By making our services end-to-end slices of business functionality, we ensure that our architecture is arranged to make changes to business functionality as efficient as possible.
###### 3. Owning their own state
**Avoid to use of shared database**.
By hiding the database that backs our service, we also ensure that we reduce coupling.
###### 4. Size
The least interesting aspect and depends to context.
#### Alignment of architecture and organization
One approach is having layered horizontal architecture. When frontend developers and UI service in one team, a backend service in another, database in the third.
Instead this we can use vertical business lines. We see a dedicated team that has full-end-to-end responsibility for making changes: a **stream-aligned team**.

## The Monolith
When we are talking about monoliths here, we refer to a unit of deployment. There are several types like single-process monolith, modular, distributed. But if it must be deployed together is remains monolith.
A distributed monolith has all the disadvantages of a distributed system, and the disadvantages of a single-process monolith, without having enough of the upsides of either.

## Enabling Technology
No need to adopt lots of new technology when first start using microservices. You should constantly be looking for issues caused by your increasingly distributed system, and then for technology that might help.
#### Log aggregation and Distributed tracing
These systems allow you to collect and aggregate logs from across all your services, providing you a central place from which logs can be analyzed, and even made part of an active alerting mechanism.
You can make these log aggregation tools even more useful by implementing correlation IDs, in which a single ID is used for a related set of service calls.
As your system grows in complexity, it becomes essential to consider tools that allow you to better explore what your system is doing, providing the ability to analyze traces across multiple services, detect bottlenecks, and ask questions of your system that you didn’t know you would want to ask in the first place.
#### Containers and Kubernetes
_Containers_ provide a lightweight way to provision isolated execution for service instances. After you begin playing around with containers, you’ll also realize that you need something to allow you to manage these containers across lots of underlying machines. Container orchestration platforms like Kubernetes do exactly that.
But do your best to ensure that someone else is running the Kubernetes cluster for you, perhaps by making use of a managed service on a public cloud provider. Running your own Kubernetes cluster can be a significant amount of work!
#### Streaming
Although with microservices we are moving away from monolithic databases, we still need to find ways to share data between microservices.
**Apache Kafka** has become the facto choice for streaming data in a microservice environment.
**Debezium** is an open source tool developed to help stream data from existing datasources over Kafka, helping ensure that traditional datasources can become part of a stream-based architecture.
#### Public cloud and serverless
Public cloud providers offer a host of managed services, from managed database instances or Kubernetes clusters to message brokers or distributed filesystems.
Of particular interest among the public cloud offerings are the products that sit under the banner of _serverless_. These products hide the underlying machines, allowing you to work at a higher level of abstraction.
## Advantages of microservices
#### Technology heterogeneity
With a system composed of multiple microservices we can decide to use different technologies inside each one.
Also the fact that internal technology implementation is hidden from consumers can also make upgrading technologies easier.
#### Robustness
 A component of a system may fail, but as long as that failure doesn’t cascade, you can isolate the problem, and the rest of the system can carry on working.
 We do need to be careful, however. To ensure that our microservice systems can properly embrace this improved robustness, we need to understand the new sources of failure that distributed systems have to deal with. Networks can and will fail, as will machines.
#### Scaling
With a large, monolithic service, we need to scale everything together. Perhaps one small part of our overall system is constrained in performance, but if that behavior is locked up in a giant monolithic application, we need to handle scaling everything as a piece. With smaller services, we can scale just those services that need scaling, allowing us to run other parts of the system on smaller, less powerful hardware.
#### Easy of deployment
A one-line change to a million-line monolithic application requires the entire application to be deployed in order to release the change. This means that our changes continue to build up between releases, until the new version of our application entering production has masses of changes. And the bigger the delta between releases, the higher the risk that we’ll get something wrong!
With microservices, we can make a change to a single service and deploy it independently of the rest of the system. This allows us to get our code deployed more quickly. If a problem does occur, it can be quickly isolated to an individual service, making fast rollback easy to achieve.
#### Organizational alignment
Smaller teams working on smaller codebases tend to be more productive. Microservices allow us to better align our architecture to our organization, helping us minimize the number of people working on any one codebase to hit the sweet spot of team size and productivity.
#### Composability
One of the key promises of distributed systems and service-oriented architectures is that we open up opportunities for reuse of functionality. With microservices, we allow for our functionality to be consumed in different ways for different purposes.
We need to think of the myriad ways that we might want to weave together capabilities for the web, native application, mobile web, tablet app, or wearable device. With microservices, as circumstances change, we can build applications in different ways.

## Pain points
#### Developer experience
Local running can be difficult when you have many microservices. It inevitably will start conversations about what to do when you can’t run the entire system on one machine.
#### Technology overload
You have to carefully balance the breadth and complexity of the technology you use against the costs that a diverse array of technology can bring.
When you start adopting microservices, some fundamental challenges are inescapable: you’ll need to spend a lot of time understanding issues around data consistency, latency, service modeling, and the like.
As you (gradually) increase the complexity of your microservice architecture, look to introduce new technology as you need it. You don’t need a Kubernetes cluster when you have three services!
#### Cost
It’s highly likely that in the short term at least you’ll see an increase in costs from a number of factors. Firstly, you’ll likely need to run more things—more processes, more computers, more network, more storage, and more supporting software.
Secondly, any change you introduce into a team or an organization will slow you down in the short term. It takes time to learn new ideas, and to work out how to use them effectively.
So are microservices a way to drive more profits? Perhaps. Are microservices a way to reduce costs? Not so much.
#### Reporting
With a monolithic system, you typically have a monolithic database. This means that stakeholders who want to analyze all the data together, often involving large join operations across data, have a ready-made schema against which to run their reports. They can just run them directly against the monolithic database, perhaps against a read replica.
In microservices our data is scattered across multiple logically isolated schemas and collect the same report more difficult.
More modern approaches to reporting, such as using streaming to allow for real-time reporting on large volumes of data, can work well with a microservice architecture but typically require the adoption of new ideas and associated technology.
#### Monitoring and troubleshooting
With a standard monolithic application, we can have a fairly simplistic approach to monitoring. We have a small number of machines to worry about, and the failure mode of the application is somewhat binary—the application is often either all up or all down. With a microservice architecture, do we understand the impact if just a single instance of a service goes down?
#### Security
In microservices more information flows over networks between our services. This can make our data more vulnerable to being observed in transit and also to potentially being manipulated as part of man-in-the-middle attacks.
#### Testing
With any type of automated functional test, you have a delicate balancing act. The more functionality a test executes—i.e., the broader the scope of the test—the more confidence you have in your application. On the other hand, the larger the scope of the test, the harder it is to set up test data and supporting fixtures, the longer the test can take to run, and the harder it can be to work out what is broken when it fails.
But with a microservice architecture, the scope of our end-to-end tests becomes _very_ large. We would now need to run tests across multiple processes, all of which need to be deployed and appropriately configured for the test scenarios.
These forces mean that as your microservice architecture grows, you will get a diminishing return on investment when it comes to end-to-end testing. The testing will cost more but won’t manage to give you the same level of confidence that it did in the past. This will drive you toward new forms of testing, such as contract-driven testing or testing in production, as well as the exploration of progressive delivery techniques such as parallel runs or canary releases.
#### Latency
Information that previously flowed within only a single process now needs to be serialized, transmitted, and deserialized over networks that you might be exercising more than ever before. All of this can result in worsening latency of your system.
Although it can be difficult to measure the exact impact on latency of operations at the design or coding phase, this is another reason it’s important to undertake any microservice migration in an incremental fashion. This assumes that you have some way of measuring the end-to-end latency for the operations you care about—distributed tracing tools like Jaeger can help here.
#### Data consistency
Shifting from a monolithic system, in which data is stored and managed in a single database, to a much more distributed system, in which multiple processes manage state in different databases, causes potential challenges with respect to consistency of data. Whereas in the past you might have relied on database transactions to manage state changes, you’ll need to understand that similar safety cannot easily be provided in a distributed system. The use of distributed transactions in most cases proves to be highly problematic in coordinating state changes.
## Whom they might not work for
I feel that microservice architectures are often a bad choice for brand-new products or startups.

The domain that you are working with is typically undergoing significant change as you iterate on the fundamentals of what you are trying to build. This shift in domain models will, in turn, result in more changes being made to service boundaries, and coordinating changes across service boundaries is an expensive undertaking.
Scalability also is not so important to start. Usually we need to concentrate to deliver as more features as possible. Startups also typically have fewer people available to build the system, which creates more challenges with respect to microservices.
Organizations creating software that will be deployed and managed by their customers may struggle with microservices.  If customers are used to receiving your software as a Windows installer, it’s going to come as an awful shock to deploy 20 pods on a Kubernetes cluster.
## Where they work well
The biggest reason that organizations adopt microservices is to allow for more developers to work on the same system without getting in each other’s way. Get your architecture and organizational boundaries right, and you allow more people to work independently of each other, reducing delivery contention.
Software as a Service (SaaS) applications are, in general, also a good fit for a microservice architecture. These products are typically expected to operate 24-7, which creates challenges when it comes to rolling out changes.
The technology-agnostic nature of microservices ensures that you can get the most out of cloud platforms.
Above all, a microservice architecture is one that can give you a lot of flexibility as you continue to evolve your system.
## Summary
Microservice architectures can give you a huge degree of flexibility in choosing technology, handling robustness and scaling, organizing teams, and more. This flexibility is in part why many people are embracing microservice architectures. But microservices bring with them a significant degree of complexity, and you need to ensure that this complexity is warranted.